elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ find /tmp *.txt 2> /dev/null
/tmp
/tmp/Temp-8c636ced-d8e6-49e1-b8f5-384c65a68ec4
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-switcheroo-control.service-kh15oi
/tmp/Temp-3bac0b0c-9201-4833-adf0-98f175181f9d
/tmp/.X11-unix
/tmp/.X11-unix/X0
/tmp/.ICE-unix
/tmp/.ICE-unix/1182
/tmp/VMwareDnD
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-colord.service-XKmMui
/tmp/tracker-extract-files.1000
/tmp/.XIM-unix
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-fwupd.service-AmoWmi
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-systemd-logind.service-hDSPmf
/tmp/config-err-6yQLFm
/tmp/ssh-eZlVLdna1PYT
/tmp/ssh-eZlVLdna1PYT/agent.963
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-systemd-resolved.service-juxgFf
/tmp/.Test-unix
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-ModemManager.service-Vnru9i
/tmp/systemd-private-6e75c577c7084cc3b07f8ed104adec77-upower.service-6qapvf
/tmp/tmpaddon
/tmp/.font-unix
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ grep -i friday crusoe.txt
be Friday, which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the
and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of
feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
and burn them all to ashes.  I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen
ladders, too; so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me:
in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I
continually.  This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time Friday was able to
the fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost
then, Friday?
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea,
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he began
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told him that
conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was such as
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he could
Friday stood, musing a great while, and said nothing.  I asked him what
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me better to
in a clear day, discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was before; and I made no
doubt but that, if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he
shore, alone and without help.  So, after some days, I took Friday to
that it was rotten.  Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday to find out
committed at first.  At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.  Friday wished to
with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn
and which there were great plenty of in the island, and I set Friday to
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what belonged
high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him to go
the flesh.  Friday had not been long gone when he came running back, and
side, and gave Friday his hatchet.  When I had thus prepared myself, I
where they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek,
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them and kill them all;
between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three
in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets;
true Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy and in a
and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to
Friday, and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the
upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his, and with the other
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he shot
they knew not from whence their destruction came.  Friday kept his eyes
the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he saw me cock and present;
again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces
and Friday close at my foot.  As soon as I perceived they saw me, I
shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too, and running as
the same way.  I turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards and fire at
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and cut the
five that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches, with
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of
shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday of those at
first wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by the
or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the boat,
though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he hit
any of them.  Friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
I jumped in and bade Friday follow me: but when I was in the canoe I was
unbound in order to be killed.  When Friday came to him I bade him speak
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat.  But when Friday came
tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father that I could not
Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was
swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday
only found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came
back to me presently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him.  But Friday, a
neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday to
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them both up
provision for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very
encouraged them.  Friday was my interpreter, especially to his father,
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of the
subjects; and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
work, and I set Friday and his father to cut them down; and then I caused
much as I could; and for this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go
out one day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took our turns),
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they might be said
end of the island.  Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
the meaning of it should be.  Friday called out to me in English, as well
to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first.  I ordered Friday
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for his
ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered men, to my
left them; for Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for
westward, towards the place where the savages came on shore, when Friday
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed; and
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the
afterwards to join very sincerely with us.  In the meantime, Friday and
Friday came back to me before they came back to their boat; and we could
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
viz. myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain
cave where the others lay.  This was committed to Friday and the two men
board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and
I made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
arrived in April following, my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered
hallooed and cried out to us most lustily.  My man Friday being next me,
I bade him ride up and see what was the matter.  As soon as Friday came
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for, having been
that we had no cause of apprehension: however, as Friday had killed this
when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not
as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave us all,
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him he was
surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see
Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with him
away reins Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for help;
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end of a
then, indeed, we did laugh heartily.  But Friday had not done with him by
Friday to stand still and we should shoot the bear: but he cried out
would have said by-and-by.  However, to shorten the story, Friday danced
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the bear cling fast to
his hind foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this
they take much notice of us.  Friday would have let fly at them, but I
spend our shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday,
Binary file crusoe.txt matches
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ echo "Hello world!" > file1.txt
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ cat file1.txt
Hello world!
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ echo "Hello world!" >> file1.txt
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ cat file1.txt
Hello world!
Hello world!
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ ls > file2.txt
elizaveta@elizaveta-VirtualBox:~/Documents$ cat file2.txt
crusoe.txt
directory
file1.txt
file2.txt
file.txt
myfile1.txt

